# LITA PROJECT 1
## Project Title: Lita Sales Data

### Project Overview
---
This Data Analysis project aim is to analyze the sales performance of a retail store by analysing the various parameters in the data recieved and to discover the key insights of the top sales, regional performace and the monthly trend.

### Data Source
---
The primary source of data used here was generated by the Incubator Hub

### Tools Used
---
- Microsoft Excel - for datacleaning, analysis and visualization
- SQL - Structured Query Language for Quring of data
- Power BI - to create dashboard that visualizes the insight from Excel and SQL
- GitHub - for portfolio building

### Data Collected
---
  The datasets include the following key columns:
  - Order ID: The unique identifier for the product that where ordered.
  - Customer id: The Customer's unique identifier.
  - Product: The item sold.
  - Region: The geographical area where the retail stores operates.
  - OrderDate: The date a particular order was made.
  - Quantity: The sales per product.
  - Unit Price: The amount per product.

 ### Data Cleaning and Preparations
 ---
  In the inceptive phase of the Data cleaning and preparation, i perform the following action;
  1. Data loading and Inspection
  2. Removing reoccuring data
  3. Data cleaning and formatting

### Exploratory Data Analysis
---
  EDA involved the exploring of the data to answer some questions about the data such as
  - What is the overall sales?
  - Which product are top sellers?
  - What products on peak sales?
  - WHat region has the highest sales of a product?
 
 ### Project Objectives
 ---
 The project was designed to address the following analysis goal:
 1. To determine the total revenue generated by each region
 2. To determine the total revenue made from each product
 3. To determine the month the store made the most sales
 4. To calculate the average revenue per sales in each region to access performance

### Data Analysis
---
This is where we include some basic lines of code or queries or even some of the DAX expression used during my analysis;

```SQL
SELECT * FROM TABLE1
GROUP BY Product
```

### 

